### what is bioinformatics?
an interdisciplinary field that develops and applies computer and computational technologies to study biomedical questions.

a powerful technology to manage, query and analyze big data in life sciences, a top-down systems approach that generates new hypotheses, finds new patterns, and discovers new functional elements.

studies questions in biology and medicine, develops and applies methods in computer sciences, mathematics, statistics and physics, and overlaps with medical/clinical informatics, systems biology and synthetic biology.

BLAST: basic local alignment search tool, filtering, seeding, extension and evaluation.



BLAT: The BLAST-Like Alignment Tool

SRA: sequence read archive, a bioinformatics database that provides a public repository for DNA sequencing data, especially the "short reads" generated by High-throughput sequencing, typically less than 1,000 base pairs in length. over 1800 trillion nucleotide

NGS data analysis: more efficient and accurate, mapping of reads from resequencing, and calling of genetic variants

GATK: Genome Analysis Toolkit, a structured programming framework designed to enable the rapid development of efficient and robust analysis tools for next-generation DNA sequencers.

### alignment
global alignment

local alignment


## DBMS/database management system
underlying structure of a database is the data model, which is a collection of conceptual tools for describing data, data relationships, data semantics and constistency constraints.

The data model includes four categories: relational model (most widely used), entity-relationship model, object-based data model and semistructured data model.

In relational model, database is a set of named relations or tables; each relation has a set of named attributes, or columns; each tuple, or row, has a value for each attribute; each attribute has a type or domain.

## Bioinformatics resource
NCBI: national center for biotechnology information, NIH

EBI: European bioinformatics institute

UCSC genome bioinformatics, a good example of centralized genome resource

